README.md, before:

# Failsafe

[![Сrate](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/failsafe.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/failsafe)
[![Вocumentation](https://docs.rs/failsafe/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/failsafe)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/dmexe/failsafe-rs.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/dmexe/failsafe-rs)
[![Appveyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/c0qrj9dbskneunjg/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/dmexe/failsafe-rs/branch/master)

A circuit breaker implementation which used to detect failures and encapsulates the logic of preventing a 
failure from constantly recurring, during maintenance, temporary external system failure or unexpected 
system difficulties.

* [https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CircuitBreaker.html](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CircuitBreaker.html)
* [Read documentation](https://docs.rs/failsafe/0.2.0/failsafe)

# Features

* Working with both `Fn() -> Result` and `Future`.
* Backoff strategies: `constant`, `exponential`, `equal_jittered`, `full_jittered`
* Failure detection policies: `consecutive_failures`, `success_rate_over_time_window`
* Minimum rust version: 1.27

# Usage

Add this to your Cargo.toml:

```toml
failsafe = "0.2.0"
```

and this to your crate root:

```rust
extern crate failsafe;
```

# Example

Using default backoff strategy and failure accrual policy.

```rust
use failsafe::{Config, CircuitBreaker, Error};

// A function that sometimes failed.
fn dangerous_call() -> Result<(), ()> {
  if thread_rng().gen_range(0, 2) == 0 {
    return Err(())
  }
  Ok(())
}

// Create a circuit breaker which configured by reasonable default backoff and
// failure accrual policy.
let circuit_breaker = Config::new().build();

// Call the function in a loop, after some iterations the circuit breaker will
// be in a open state and reject next calls.
for n in 0..100 {
  match circuit_breaker.call(|| dangerous_call()) {
    Err(Error::Inner(_)) => {
      eprintln!("{}: fail", n);
    },
    Err(Error::Rejected) => {
       eprintln!("{}: rejected", n);
       break;
    },
    _ => {}
  }
}
```

Or configure custom backoff and policy:

```rust
use std::time::Duration;
use failsafe::{backoff, failure_policy, CircuitBreaker};

// Create an exponential growth backoff which starts from 10s and ends with 60s.
let backoff = backoff::exponential(Duration::from_secs(10), Duration::from_secs(60));

// Create a policy which failed when three consecutive failures were made.
let policy = failure_policy::consecutive_failures(3, backoff);

// Creates a circuit breaker with given policy.
let circuit_breaker = Config::new()
  .failure_policy(policy)
  .build();
```

Commit message:

Upgrade to use std::future::Future. (#15)
* Upgrade to use std::future::Future.

This upgrades to use the stabalised `std::future::Future`, and the
`futures-0.3` crate for the convenient `TryFuture` for futures returning
a result. This allows easy use with async-await. It means the minimum
Rust version would become 1.39. The change in types is a breaking semver
change.

This depends on `futures-core` rather than the `futures` crate because
we're only using the `TryFuture` crate and it brings the number of
dependencies down significantly.

This adds an extra dependency on `pin-project` to handle the pinning of
the inner future in `ResponseFuture`. It'd be possible to avoid this
dependency, but I didn't trust myself to get the pinning rules right.
It's a fairly lightweight dependency.

* Upgrade to tokio-0.2 in the tests.

* Upgrade rand.

This adds an extra dependency on `rand_xorshift` for the tests, as the
PRNG has been moved out of the main crate.

* Upgrade parking_lot.

* Update futures bench.

* cargo update

* Add futures-support feature.

The `futures` module can be optional for users who do not needing it,
saving them a few dependencies. This feature is default on, for
compatibility with the current API.

I would have liked to call this `futures`, but can't because features
and dependencies share a namespace.

* Update CHANGELOG/README.

* Update CircleCI for minimum Rust version.

README.md, after:

# Failsafe

[![Сrate](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/failsafe.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/failsafe)
[![Вocumentation](https://docs.rs/failsafe/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/failsafe)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/dmexe/failsafe-rs.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/dmexe/failsafe-rs)
[![Appveyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/c0qrj9dbskneunjg/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/dmexe/failsafe-rs/branch/master)

A circuit breaker implementation which used to detect failures and encapsulates the logic of preventing a
failure from constantly recurring, during maintenance, temporary external system failure or unexpected
system difficulties.

* [https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CircuitBreaker.html](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/CircuitBreaker.html)
* [Read documentation](https://docs.rs/failsafe/0.2.0/failsafe)

# Features

* Working with both `Fn() -> Result` and `Future` (optional via default
  `futures-support` feature).
* Backoff strategies: `constant`, `exponential`, `equal_jittered`, `full_jittered`
* Failure detection policies: `consecutive_failures`, `success_rate_over_time_window`
* Minimum rust version: 1.39

# Usage

Add this to your Cargo.toml:

```toml
failsafe = "0.3.1"
```

# Example

Using default backoff strategy and failure accrual policy.

```rust
use failsafe::{Config, CircuitBreaker, Error};

// A function that sometimes failed.
fn dangerous_call() -> Result<(), ()> {
  if thread_rng().gen_range(0, 2) == 0 {
    return Err(())
  }
  Ok(())
}

// Create a circuit breaker which configured by reasonable default backoff and
// failure accrual policy.
let circuit_breaker = Config::new().build();

// Call the function in a loop, after some iterations the circuit breaker will
// be in a open state and reject next calls.
for n in 0..100 {
  match circuit_breaker.call(|| dangerous_call()) {
    Err(Error::Inner(_)) => {
      eprintln!("{}: fail", n);
    },
    Err(Error::Rejected) => {
       eprintln!("{}: rejected", n);
       break;
    },
    _ => {}
  }
}
```

Or configure custom backoff and policy:

```rust
use std::time::Duration;
use failsafe::{backoff, failure_policy, CircuitBreaker};

// Create an exponential growth backoff which starts from 10s and ends with 60s.
let backoff = backoff::exponential(Duration::from_secs(10), Duration::from_secs(60));

// Create a policy which failed when three consecutive failures were made.
let policy = failure_policy::consecutive_failures(3, backoff);

// Creates a circuit breaker with given policy.
let circuit_breaker = Config::new()
  .failure_policy(policy)
  .build();
```
